P, T, V, R, M, D, K and W are sitting around a circular table facing the Centre. V is second to the left of T. T is fourth to the right of M. D and P are not immediate neighbors of T. D is third to the right of P. W is not an immediate neighbor of P. P is to the immediate left of K. Four of the following five are alike in a certain way based on their positions in the above seating arrangement and so form a group. Which of the following does not belong to that group?
A) NONE
B) RD
C) DW
D) TP
E) VM
ANSWER: B

Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, W and X are sitting in a straight line facing North, not necessarily in the same order. R sits at one of the extreme ends of the line. T has as many people sitting on his right, as on his left. S sits third to the left of X. Q sits on the immediate left of W. Q does not sit at any of the extreme ends of the line. How many people sit to the right of P?
A) ONE
B) THREE
C) NONE
D) TWO
E) FOUR
ANSWER: E

P, T, V, R, M, D, K and W are sitting around a circular table facing the Centre. V is second to the left of T. T is fourth to the right of M. D and P are not immediate neighbors of T. D is third to the right of P. W is not an immediate neighbor of P. P is to the immediate left of K. Who is on the immediate left of V?
A) D
B) W
C) M
D) DATA INADEQUATE
ANSWER: A

Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, W and X are sitting in a straight line facing North, not necessarily in the same order. R sits at one of the extreme ends of the line. T has as many people sitting on his right, as on his left. S sits third to the left of X. Q sits on the immediate left of W. Q does not sit at any of the extreme ends of the line. Who amongst the following sits second to the right of the fourth person from the right end of the line?
A) W
B) Q
C) R
D) P
E) NONE
ANSWER: B

P, T, V, R, M, D, K and W are sitting around a circular table facing the Centre. V is second to the left of T. T is fourth to the right of M. D and P are not immediate neighbors of T. D is third to the right of P. W is not an immediate neighbor of P. P is to the immediate left of K. Who is second to the left of K?
A) R
B) NONE
C) W
D) P
E) M
ANSWER: A
