Which of the following is not a universal intellectual standard of reasoning?
A. length
B. depth
C. breadth
D. logic
ANSWER: A

In AGMEDDS, what does E stand for?
A. Evaluation
B. Elimination
C. Enumeration
D. Examination
ANSWER: A

Other name for critical thinking is?
A. Temporal Thinking
B. Problem Solving
C. Metacognition
D. Subliminal Thinking
ANSWER: B

Ice cools, is an example of?
A. Creative Thinking
B. Communicative Thinking
C. Abstract thinking
D. Systematic Thinking
ANSWER: C

Who sculpted The Thinker?
A. Rene Descartese
B. Chantal Ronin
C. Auguste Rodin
D. Coper Nicus
ANSWER: C

Strategies for creative thinking include:
A. Take risks and dream big
B. Never be afraid to ask any question, even those you think may be silly
C. Force yourself to do something old in a new way
D. All of the options
ANSWER: D

Following is not a characteristic of a critical thinker:
A. He upholds the standards of critical thinking
B. He thinks independently and does not always succumb to peer pressure
C. He refuses to recognise the limitations of his mind
D. He uses logical skills in reasoning
ANSWER: C

Critical Thinking involves:
A. Higher level thinking that aims to solve a problem
B. Finding faults and weaknesses in other people's arguments
C. Logically analysing arguments in a critical way
D. Disciplined thinking and judgement
ANSWER: D

Following element is not a part of critical thinking:
A. Depth
B. Relevance
C. Insignificance
D. Clarity
ANSWER: C

Tips to keep emotions from affecting your objectivity in decision making include which of the following:
A. Don't let yourself become engaged in "I'm right, you're wrong" situations
B. Don't deliberate when making a decision as it only prolongs the inevitable
C. Let your self-talk or inner voice control the situation
D. Let your emotions guide your decision
ANSWER: A

Critical thinking concerns with:
A. Pinpointing the psychological basis of our beliefs
B. Assessing the practical impact of our beliefs
C. Determining the cause of our beliefs
D. Determining the quality of our beliefs
ANSWER: D

The word 'critical' in critical thinking refers to:
A. Attempts to win an argument
B. A fault-finding attitude
C. A lack of respect for other people
D. Using careful judgment or judicious evaluation
ANSWER: D

Steps for critical-thinking skill development involve:
A. Apply the elements of reasoning to universal intellectual standards in order to develop intellectual traits
B. Apply universal intellectual standards to intellectual traits in order to develop the elements of reasoning
C. Apply universal intellectual standards to the elements of reasoning in order to develop intellectual traits
D. Apply intellectual traits to the elements of reasoning in order to develop universal intellectual standards
ANSWER: C

A belief is worth accepting if:
A. It is consistent with our needs
B. It is accepted by our peers
C. We have good reasons to accept it
D. It has not been proven wrong
ANSWER: C

Guidelines for trying to distinguish fact from opinion include which of the following:
A. Follow your intuition regarding those whom you trust
B. Listen for everything that is said in a statement
C. Listen for what is said in a statement and read between the lines
D. Don't bother asking for documentation to support the statement as they probably don't have it with them
ANSWER: C

A customer calls in and wants to complain about the last agent they dealt with. You:
A. Let the customer know that we value their business and ask how they would like us to proceed with the issue at hand
B. Let the customer know that we normally do not handle our customers this way and provide small compensation for the problem
C. Advise the customer that we will take their comments and submit them to our training department
D. Advise the customer that we will go back and listen to the call and coach the specific agent accordingly
ANSWER: A

Critical thinking is all about _____________ while creative thinking is more about _____________:
A. Shallow thinking...deeper-level thinking
B. Brainstorming...analysis
C. Finding objective answers...coming up with subjective answers
D. Analysing problems and evaluating outcomes...discovering different perspectives and brainstorming ideas
ANSWER: D

What is usually the most important question you can ask in any given situation:
A. How much money can I make?
B. Is it worth the try?
C. Who is responsible?
D. Can I accomplish this?
ANSWER: D

Assumption is:
A. A viewpoint you have
B. An idea you take for granted
C. A piece of information you have researched
D. The answer to a question
ANSWER: B

Is it legal for a man to marry his widow's sister?
A. Sometimes
B. No
C. Yes
D. Can't say
ANSWER: B

If a plane crashes on the border of Germany and Poland, where do you bury the survivors:
A. There is no German Poland border.
B. Germany
C. You don't
D. Poland
ANSWER: C

For this entire semester, I've been playing and having fun every day. My studies are not doing well. However, I believe I can score an O(outstanding) grade in all courses after the exam next week. What is the mistake that I have committed here, with respect to critical thinking:
A. Self-belief
B. Confidence
C. Wishful Thinking
D. Fair mindedness
ANSWER: C

How many birthdays does the average person have:
A. 76
B. 65
C. 7
D. 1
ANSWER: D

Lecturer: You all should focus on this section. It's a critical section that requires a lot of thought and review. Peter: Ah, I know everything. This section is not a problem for me. I don't need to completely learn this. What mistake has Peter committed here, with respect to critical thinking?
A. Relevance
B. Accuracy
C. Completeness
D. Fairness
ANSWER: C

You have been given a Written Warning for being late and absent to work on several occasions. You:
A. Request that you get a wake-up call every day and focus only on the positives about your job
B. Find specific days that were missed and evaluate what happened each day in order to find a solution to the problem
C. Convince your manager that you are a good performer and that you are dedicated to the company's success
D. Try to find a new job whenever the opportunity arises
ANSWER: B

Humour is an example of:
A. Communicative Thinking
B. Systematic Thinking
C. Abstract Thinking
D. Creative Thinking
ANSWER: C

Courage in critical thinking means:
A. Fearless thinking and expression
B. Blaming circumstances
C. Changing viewpoint under pressure
D. Throwing the blame on others
ANSWER: A

In the Four Prisoners problem if the first person in the group could rightly guess the colour of his hat:
A. Because the person behind the wall could not guess
B. Because the 3rd person could not guess
C. But it’s an impossible statement
D. Because the 2nd person could not guess
ANSWER: C

Intellectual Humility implies:
A. All are intelligent
B. No one is as intelligent as you are
C. Everyone around is a fool
D. Others don't deserve respect
ANSWER: A

What test would you use to reason out "Everything is fair in love and war":
A. The Common Pattern Test
B. Indicator Word Test
C. The Principle of Charity Test
D. The Strict Necessity Test
ANSWER: C

Why is it important to evaluate any information you encounter:
A. Information may not be helpful
B. Information may contain answers to my questions
C. Information may be difficult to understand
D. Information may contain defects
ANSWER: B

A powerful question:
A. Is less reliable than a yes or no question
B. Calls for a one-word response
C. Is open-ended and expands your thinking
D. Narrows the scope of the conversation
ANSWER: C

To think critically means:
A. To think actively, with an awareness of potential problems in the information you encounter
B. To criticise things for their shortcomings
C. To consider things on their face value
D. To imagine what it would be like to be criticised
ANSWER: A

A group of students are trying to find a creative way to solve a problem. Which student is asking the most imaginative question?
A. Pooja is ready to give up
B. Myra is curious about which rules can be broken
C. Arya is brainstorming a list of whom they can ask for help
D. Abhay wants to know which books will give them answers
ANSWER: C

A person sitting in a job interview said "He expects a salary anything between 50000 and 60000 per month". The statement is not:
A. None of other options
B. Clear
C. Accurate
D. Precise
ANSWER: C




Which of these is not one of the basic building blocks of reasoning:
A. inferences
B. information
C. intuition
D. implications
ANSWER: C

The statement, what data, facts, observations and experiences do I have, can be contained in:
A. information
B. concepts
C. assumptions
D. points of view
ANSWER: A

A critical thinker:
A. is circumstantial rather than evidential
B. accepts friend as a package of both good and bad
C. ignores that no body is God
D. can make a promise to to pluck the stars to his/her beloved
ANSWER: B

Which of the following is not correct about a critical thinker:
A. being content with the first solution to a problem, and not thinking more deeply about it for a better solution
B. looking for what is implied in a question rather than what is stated
C. not letting reason to be clouded by emotion
D. applying the rules of logic to problem solving
ANSWER: A

Uncritical thinkers:
A. are not guided by mere feelings
B. are not disbelievers of facts
C. are not too impatient
D. are not skeptical of extreme views
ANSWER: D



Problems with readily available solutions are:
A. None of the above
B. Simple
C. Complex
D. Introspective
ANSWER: B

Sudden death of a dear one is:
A. None of the above
B. Simple problem
C. Complex problem
D. Customary problem
ANSWER: C

An undesirable result is:
A. Cause
B. Root Cause
C. Symptom
D. End point
ANSWER: C

Customary problems are:
A. None of the above
B. Already solved
C. Crisis
D. Known-unknown
ANSWER: D

A problem is:
A. All options
B. An undesirable event
C. A gap between desired state and obtained state
D. An adversity requiring solution
ANSWER: A



Which of these is not a type of logic tree?
A. Binary  
B. Inductive  
C. Collective  
D. Deductive  
ANSWER: C

An effective issue tree may not follow one of the following basic rules:
A. Use a logical and creative breakdown  
B. Have branches that are completely redundant and absolutely pointless  
C. Progresses from the key question to the last element as it moves to the right  
D. Consistently answer a WHY or a HOW question  
ANSWER: B

Which of these is not a characteristic of a good problem statement?
A. Relevant  
B. Specific  
C. Mythical  
D. Action-oriented  
ANSWER: C

The main message of synthesis must not be:
A. Targeted  
B. Powerful  
C. Supportable  
D. Overacting  
ANSWER: D

Flowcharts are:
A. Examine the relationship between the two data types  
B. Graphical description of how work is done  
C. A sheet designed in advance to allow easy collection and aggregation of data  
D. Chart created from data collected for a certain period of time  
ANSWER: B
